---
title: SSJS Devcamp organized by DevMeetings.pl
layout: post
categories: [event, ssjs, devmeetigs]
---

I have always liked lightweight events, like BarCamp, and have tried to attend
most of locally organized ones.  At the beginning of this year I have taken
part in [Pozna≈Ñ Code
Retreat](http://www.jug.poznan.pl/materialy-ze-spotkan/materialy/1-poznanski-code-retreat/)
that was really great and intense coding experience, and I would love to take
part in another one.

In June I have received an invitation to a Server Side Javascript R&D Camp
organized by [DevMeetings.pl](http://devmeetings.pl). It was advertised as a
three days long, advanced and practical developers meeting in a nice hotel in
countryside. It didn't take me long to accept the invitation and I was eagerly
waiting for it.
<!--more-->

About twenty developers arrived on Thursday evening. For the first two days we
worked in 4-5 people teams researching different topics: security, performance,
NoSQL databases, integration, tools and practices. I worked on db team and will
describe the results in some following post. On each day's evening each team
presented theirs results. This introduced a little pressure and made people
work hard, as no one would like to present nothing...

On Sunday, our final day, each team was given the same task: implement simple
twitter clone using some of the technologies we have worked with. We started at
10am and the deadline was dinner at 2pm. I, together with
[Bartek](http://twitter.com/#!/bartaz) and
[Bernard](http://twitter.com/#!/gustaff_weldon) used RingoJS deployed on
AppEngine, and the results are visible
[here](http://devcamp.ringojs-twitter.appspot.com/). I think it is quite
impressive that now we have technologies and tools that allows us to build such
things in a rather short time span. But to be honest we could use Python
instead of RingoJS and there would be even less work to do
([appenginejs](http://www.appenginejs.org/) is rather incomplete and needed
some patches).

And again, after dinner each team showed theirs app, each was crowd beta-tested
and the results of the camp was discussed. Sadly I had to leave before
the conclusion but I have a feeling that SSJS was not voted as production-ready
Java replacement... But more on that later.

I would like to thank the organizers and all the great attenders, I had a great
time and learned a lot about today's hot technologies. See you next time!

